[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Anytime a person is not
living authentically according
to what is truly most important,
and meaningful, and value,
and inspiring in their lives,
the unfulfillment makes them
seek immediate
gratification to compensate.
And this addictive behavior,
this hedonic treadmill
trying to find this instant
gratification and pleasure
makes people sometimes try
to be somebody they're not,
which is a vicious cycle.
>> For me, I ate and I
watched movies and TV.
And that was what I used to do.
As soon as I got home,
I'd start eating junk food
and watching whatever
was on cable TV.
I would just check out.
Any chance I could to
check out, I was gone.
I just wanted to
be anesthetized.
And my drug of choice
was TV, movies, and food.
>> I think to get
through that time,
I look back now
and I think well,
I probably had some depression
a little bit going on.
And that's not a typical
life experience for me.
But I also think
I soothed myself
by numbing myself and doing
that in a variety of ways
that I don't think are helpful.
>> Going to work on
Monday, getting to Friday,
like I used to do, being
really excited for Friday,
then self-medicating
again till Monday.
And then wash, rinse, repeat.
>> In our society today, as we
know it, is distraction-based.
If you think about all
the time that people
spend on the internet and
on social media sites,
and that's another way
that people can really
check out and
distract themselves.
And keep them from really
going for what they want.
And so often, people go on
these social media sites
and they look at what
other people are doing
and then they get jealous
or they get upset.
And then they think,
who am I in the world?
And I'm not as good as they are.
And it becomes this recursive,
scarcity-type thinking.
>> A lot of people spend
hours a day consuming reality
television, hours a day watching
stuff that's just mental crap.
That I think they're just
unaware of the effect
it's having on their brain.
On their perception.
On how much it really
affects their expectation
model and their financial,
emotional, physical
relationship, health set
points of what they expect.
And I think some of it's good.
However, I think, most
of it's detrimental.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And the whole time
I was doing this,
I was also gaining weight.
So over an 11-year period,
I gained over 200 pounds.
I went from about 180
pounds to 409 pounds.
Trying to diet and all that
kind of stuff, but just pushing
and pushing and pushing.
And being in a job that I
was somewhat successful at,
I had about 15 brokers
working under me.
But killing myself working night
and day, hoping that someday
I could retire.
And it was like a carrot that
was dangled in front of me
for my whole existence.
And hating every
minute of my existence
and literally hating it.
And then when you
compound the hating
of the existence with 200
pounds of excess weight,
it's a living nightmare.
So it got to the
point where I felt
like I was on this
treadmill that was going too
fast with nowhere to get off.
>> In the midst of
the economic crisis,
I was watching the news one day.
And they have these
little tickers
that go underneath the news
these days, a 24-hour news
and they got seven things going
on on the screen, one of them
is this ticker below.
And it goes past that right
in the middle of this housing
crisis, you hear all
this news, everybody
is getting foreclosed on--
93% of Americans are on
time with their mortgage.
And it went by so quickly and
I could never find it online.
Where did that
statistic come from?
I was watching news
and my impression
was everybody was
going bankrupt.
Everybody was
losing their houses.
Everybody was getting
foreclosed on.
And I think there's some--
get you to watch the news of
it's dramatic and negative
stuff.
And I think that kind
of consciousness--
I turned off the news for
a while because I was like,
I can't watch this.
I'm doing better each year
and they're telling me no,
everything's getting worse.
>> I do believe
that as a species,
we do have a negativity bias.
Our attention is drawn
toward the negative.
In the media, in school,
the teacher's attention
focuses on the kid who's
creating a problem, a behavior
problem.
Because he doesn't
want to sit still
when he's learning because
that's not who he is.
Negativity bias is
real and it's natural.
And it's false.
It's a false set of blinders.
And we obsessively
focus on the negative.
>> The human species
is wired for survival.
And to move away from
pain, real or imagined,
and to move towards pleasure.
Move towards love and away from
being ashamed or embarrassed.
And so there are
driving genetic forces
that wants to keep us in our
comfort zone into this paradigm
that we have gotten used to.
And things are changing
so fast right now,
that it's causing
a lot of people
to activate the fear
circuits in their brain.
And when the fear circuits
in the brain are activated,
the motivational
circuit in the brain
is actually dwindled down.
>> You get invited into
scarcity, and fear,
and poverty mentality.
And it's just an invitation.
You can RSVP, you don't have to
attend that particular party.
I don't want to come
to the scarcity party,
as much as the media
might invite me, as much
as my friends might invite
me, or family might invite me.
There is that moment of
choice where you say,
I don't want to hang
around with that stuff.
I don't want to have that input.
Because I know it could affect
me at the non-conscious level.
I'm not going there.
>> I always knew that there was
something wrong with what I was
doing.
But at the same time,
if I had any free time,
I was more concerned
with distracting myself
than trying to find any
kind of meaningful solution.
So I was already working
as hard as I could
and if I had any
free time, I was
going to be distracting myself.
>> Well.
I think a lot of times.
We distract
ourselves from having
a more abundant lifestyle
or abundant way of thinking
or being because we're
not focusing on what's
positive in our lives.
You're focusing on the
pain and the troubles.
And what isn't going
to go right and how
the future won't serve you.
And we're going to try to numb
out on that because there's not
much hope with that.
And I think people
often get a sense when
they have limiting
beliefs-- for example,
if they think I'm not the
kind of person that will never
be successful, then they're
going to live up to that.
>> And so the
question then becomes,
do my beliefs serve me?
Do my beliefs move
me towards what
it is that I want or
away from what I want?
Do my habits, which
are also nothing
more than neural
patterns in the brain,
create a life that
I want or not?
Are they constructive
or destructive?
Are they habits that
serve me or don't?
>> Where do I want to go?
And so I went on a journey.
And, of course, that
journey is never-ending,
but really, a big
part of that journey
was defining what I wanted to
do with the rest of my life.
It was like I've
got everything now,
let's talk about where--
that was phase one.
Here's phase two,
where am I going to go?
What am I going to do?
What do I want my
life to look like?
Who do I want to be?
What do I want my
relationships to be?
What friends do I want?
What kind of a husband
do I want to be?
What do I want my
physical self to be?
How about my community?
>> If we knew where we want
to go rather than where
we've been--
you can focus on where you've
been and try and sort that out,
but that's difficult--
I think one of the
ways is to have
the future call us and
pull us where we'd rather
be with money, with our
lives, with our experience,
with our relationships.
And have that sense
of here's where
I'd love to go and then have
that influence you to pull you
away from those old
limiting beliefs, and ideas,
and unhelpful influences
to where you want to be.
>> How it is that we speak to
ourselves creates our outcome
in life.
It creates our experience.
So when we want to
live an authentic life,
a life of alignment,
it's really important
what we say to ourselves,
the words we choose.
So when a problem comes
up, if you start to say,
I don't know what to do.
How am I going to handle this?
You create a whole
path of possibilities.
But if you change your words
and change your thoughts
and start with I know
exactly what to do,
you open up a
completely different set
of options for yourself.
Not only options, but a new
experience of confidence,
of alignment, of trusting in the
truth and the process of life
and of your highest good,
being able to be part of how
you live every single day.
So by saying, I know
exactly what to do,
even if at that moment you're
not exactly sure, that's OK.
You start by asserting I
know exactly what to do.
And you'll see that
your shoulders relax.
Your body starts to relax.
And it opens up new ways for
you to take your very next step.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So what's kind of scary is
when we look at life and we
make positive shifts and we
make changes is that we go back
to whatever it is
we're comfortable.
And what's really
sad about that is
most people are comfortable
with worry, anxiety, and doubt.
And that's the truth.
Because they're used to it.
>> I did oscillate, for sure,
between still being scared
and having moments of knowing
it was all going to be OK.
And going back to being
scared and then knowing it
was going to be OK.
>> As I have
learned to meditate,
I've learned to accept
whatever I'm feeling.
And that involves
sometimes accepting
very painful feelings.
Feelings of embarrassment
or certainly,
feelings of vulnerability,
feelings of shame,
feelings of anger,
and self-blame.
And just accepting and
staying in that space.
And that's a hard
place to stay with.
That's, I guess, the part
of us that in other lives
might have soothed over it with
another meal, or another drink,
or something, or gossiping
with people to make ourselves
feel better.
But instead, just staying with
it, and holding that space,
and exploring it to see
what I have to learn there.
What it has to teach me.
And just risking feeling it
in all the ways that I can.
And what I know
from experience--
I forget this, but I
relearn it many times over--
is that it melts away
when I stay with it.
>> The first step to being
able to use your intuition is
to listen.
You have to listen to your
intuition to access it.
And the way that you
listen to your intuition
is you create a
space of stillness.
You give yourself
the opportunity
to pause, to wait for your
intuition to speak to you.
For you to wait for
your truth or stillness.
For that small quiet
voice to come to you.
It's like holding a dove.
If you squeeze it
too tight, you're
going to squeeze the dove.
If it's too loose,
it's going to fly off.
So there's this
perfect sweet spot
where you've created the
space and the opportunity
for stillness, for quietness,
for the pause where you can
allow the truth to come to you.
Just wait for it and
allow it to come to you.
Don't force it.
And when you practice
this every day,
just a little bit
every single day,
then you create a
whole life where
you give yourself that chance.
Each day to wait and let
the truth come to you.
>> And what happens is you
begin to honor and acknowledge
whatever those feelings are
rather than push them away,
which is what a lot
of people will do.
They'll get a negative
feeling or a bad feeling
about their life or the way it
is and so what a lot of people
do is they self-medicate.
They'll eat too much.
They'll drink too much.
They'll take on
addictive behaviors
or they become apathetic.
And the best thing you can do
is acknowledge those feelings.
And find out what the
positive intention
is behind them or the positive
purpose and then move forward.
And when you begin to do that,
all kinds of opportunities
will open up for you.
>> So I started living with
this understanding that the real
meaning of life for me was
to deepen this connection,
this internal connection.
And that would give
me a purpose in life.
And so my purpose became
channeling that energy,
that was my purpose.
And from there, I
went on to write
several books that have
been translated to 16
languages in 60 countries.
And I've gone on to
speak all over the world.
But none of it is me
as I think of myself,
it's just this channeled energy.
And what I came to
understand is that my purpose
is to connect with this energy,
channel it, surrender to it,
and allow it to work through me.
And as long as I'm
doing that, I'm
always exactly where
I'm meant to be.
Doing exactly what
I'm meant to be doing.
>> Years ago, I was assisting
a photographer who was working
on this shoot.
And Pavarotti was the subject
of this photography shoot.
And it was a big
news event, a junket.
So there were different
new stations there.
And this little woman
from a tacky news--
she came up so Pavarotti,
you are so disciplined.
You go to bed at night
and you rest your voice,
and he said it's not
discipline, it's devotion.
And I will never forget that.
So when you're
devoted to your craft,
you're devoted to your art,
your devoted to your mission,
it's not about discipline.
It's about a place of love.
>> To truly know when it's time
to move on, one of the things I
go back to is passion.
Is my passion still there?
Am I feeling as alive
and excited about diving
into it, again?
Or do I have a sense of dread
about getting going and doing
it yet another time?
And when my passion starts to
wane, I either need some rest,
and that's valid, or I need to
think about whether it's time
to move on, to let that
go, and let some open space
take place so that
something new can be born.
>> Well, there is effort, but
the effort is joy and passion.
The effort is in keeping
those connections,
those channels open,
but there's so much joy
in keeping those channels open.
>> Passion is the number
one goal we should see.
Well, let me change
that-- it's number two.
Number one should be,
who am I authentically?
Finding your authentic self
and your authentic path.
And then because
passion comes from that,
passion comes from
your authenticity,
we find passion within living
within an authentic space.
And so, the second quest
for every human being
should be to find their passion.
Because it's passion
that fuels everything.
It's the motivator.
It's the driver.
It fuels everything.
>> I'm not separate from
that which created me.
A lot of religions say
believe in this religion
and do this or that,
and you will one day
be one with that
which created you.
I don't buy into that.
I believe I'm already one
with that which created me,
I just have to become
more aware of that.
So I just seek to become
more aware of that every day.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And the more I become aware of
that, there's nothing missing.
There isn't anything
missing at all.
Everything is in perfect
order and harmony,
just the way it is.
If I don't like what
is, I have to change.
I'm the one who has to change.
There is nothing in
my external world,
not one person,
not one experience,
not one thought of somebody
else's that has to change.
It's all up to me.
>> So the system, when
you're in the system,
it really is a choice.
You don't have to be controlled.
You can do what you want.
You can use the system.
I think so many people
have the victim mentality.
They say gosh, it
didn't work out for me.
This isn't working.
I got my degree.
But at the end of the
day, it's just a system.
So pull back, understand
it, and use it.
That's what's great.
The system is actually,
pretty cool when
you understand how to use it.
You can leverage time.
You can leverage all kinds
of resources around you.
And it just takes an open
mind to be able to do that.
So it's really important
that it is a choice.
Abundance is a choice.
It's a decision that you make.
>> Now when you start
wasting time like that,
when it's down here, it means
you don't really value that
time so much.
If, on the other hand, you're
at this level where you're
actually saying
every hour of time
that I waste is an hour I can
never get back-- with money
I can always get more.
But with time, when it's
gone, it's gone forever.
The moment you just confront
that and say it's gone forever
and it's never coming back,
I must make the most of it.
What could I be doing
with that hour right now?
You do stop watching the TV.
You do stop actually
procrastinating.
saying it's OK for this
to happen for another day.
And you do say no, it's
going to change now.